nonas on vna sannanim-cunr. x111.,x1v. 81

&aduc quin ctiam 11 ipsc cmnttntrto labet. “Moreover, even com·
panicuship itself has its several degrees.'’ The words et ipse are
- expunged by Walch, and perhaps correctly. They are certainly not
needed. Iu all probability, 11 arose, by some corruption, from etiem,

which precedes, and perhaps ipse was then inserted to give mors
emphasis 10 comitatus. (Consult Gerlach, cd loc.)

Hac dignitus, tce circe. “In this consiste their dignity, in this
their strength.'’-1d amaea, 11 gloria 111. “ Does this confer a dis·
tinguished name, is this asource of renown.” Literally‚ ‘¹ Is this a
name, is this a glory.”-Et ipsa plerumque samu bella profligunt.
“And they ostentimes nearly bring ware to a close by their reputa-
tion alone.” Profligarc is, “to cause 1ο 101101,” literally. Hence
it is frequently followed by 10111111. From this has been derived
the meaning of “nearly to finish.¹’ What is mentioned in the text
is related by Cesar of Indutiomarus (B. G, v., 55); by Tacitus of
Segestes (tan, i., 57); of Flavius, the brother 01 Arminius (Ana,
ii, 9) ; and of Inguiomerus (Aac, ii, 45).

crimen XIV.

Jam cero infante, &c ‘⁴ Above all, however, is it a source 01 in·
famy aud reproach during the whole of one's life.’' The expression
jum cero, like tum cero, is always employed 10 introduce the climax,
and requires, therefore, occasionally a somewbat free mode 01 ren·
dering. Compare the version of Betticner, “Dua cler nollendo iet
stara gorzes 1111111111 Schundc und ciac Sctmaclt.’'—Probrosum. Ob-
serve that infame here refers to the actual insamy, considered per
u, and probrosum to the reproaching of oue with that stain upon his
character.

Superstitem principi, dcc. Hence, when Chonodomar, king 01 the
Alemanni, was taken prisoner by the Romans, his companious, two
hundred iu number, and three 01 his most intimate friends (amici
junctissimi), deemiug it insamous to survive their prince, 01 else 1101
10 die 101 him, if chance should so will it, delivered themselves up to

be thrown into letters. (Amm. Marcell, xvi, 12, 60.)-Proecipuum ,

sacramentum. “Is their chief and most sacred obligatiou.” Sac-
ramentumhere deuotes asacrcd duty, dac.. aod oue generally guarded
by an oath. Hence the term was especially applied to the military
cath 01 the Roman soldiery3 and Tacitus, therefore, expressly em·
ploys the word iu the present case to show how binding among the
' Germane was the obligation to which he refers.

nutare. So 01111111 (cbap. xxxvi), end acciperes, 10111111, aare

De

 

